arm_mps2_an386/README.md, before:

### Qemu Arm Cortex-m4 mps2-an386 HOWTO

#### 1. Brief introduction
`arm_mps2_an386/` subdirectory contains part of the OpenHarmony LiteOS demonstration support for Qemu Arm Cortex-m4 mps2-an386 Platform,
here called *arm_mps2_an386*.
cortex-m4 Virtual platform is a `qemu-system-arm` machine target that provides emulation
for a generic, arm-based board.

Introduced functionality adds support for Cortex-m4 (1 CPU with security extensions), 16MB memory virtual platform.

Note: System memory size is hard-coded to 16MB.

#### 2. Setting up environment

[Setting up a development environment](https://gitee.com/openharmony/docs/blob/HEAD/en/device-dev/quick-start/quickstart-lite-env-setup.md)

Compiler install

1.Command to install

Note: Command to install toolchain without arm-none-eabi-gdb, gdb cannot be debugged.

```
$ sudo apt install gcc-arm-none-eabi
```

2.The installation package to install

Note: If you have already passed the command to install gcc-arm-none-eabi, can through the command: `$sudo apt remove 
gcc-arm-none-eabi` after unloading, install again.

Download toolchain: [package](https://armkeil.blob.core.windows.net/developer/Files/downloads/gnu-rm/6-2017q2/gcc-arm-none-eabi-6-2017-q2-update-linux.tar.bz2)。

```
$ chmod 777 gcc-arm-none-eabi-6-2017-q2-update-linux.tar.bz2
$ tar -xvf gcc-arm-none-eabi-6-2017-q2-update-linux.tar.bz2 install_path
```

Add the installation path to the environment variable:

```
$ vim ~/.bashrc
```

Add the following command line to the last line of ~/.bashrc:

```
$ export PATH=$PATH:install_path/gcc-arm-none-eabi-6-2017-q2-update/bin
```

#### 3. Code acquisition

[Code acquisition](https://gitee.com/openharmony/docs/blob/HEAD/en/device-dev/get-code/sourcecode-acquire.md)

Note: One can use `repo` to fetch code in a straightforward manner.

#### 4. Building from sources

```
$ cd device/qemu/arm_mps2_an386
$ hb build -f
```

This will build `liteos` for Qemu Cortex-m4 mps2-an386 machine.


After build is finished, the resulting image can be found in:
```
../../../out/arm_mps2_an386/bin/liteos
```
#### 5. Running image in Qemu

a) If not installed, please install `qemu-system-arm`
For details, please refer to the HOWTO: [Qemu installation](https://gitee.com/openharmony/device_qemu/blob/HEAD/README.md)

b) Run

```
$ cd device/qemu/arm_mps2_an386
$ ./qemu_run.sh ../../../out/arm_mps2_an386/bin/liteos
```

#### 6. gdb debug

```
$ cd device/qemu/arm_mps2_an386
$ vim liteos_m/config.gni
```

In the modified `board_opt_flags` compiler options:

```
board_opt_flags = []
```
to:

```
board_opt_flags = [ "-g" ]
```

Save and exit, recompile:

```
$ hb build -f
```

In a window to enter the command:

```
$ ./qemu_run.sh gdb ../../../out/arm_mps2_an386/unstripped/bin/liteos
```

In another window to enter the command:

```
$ arm-none-eabi-gdb ../../../out/arm_mps2_an386/unstripped/bin/liteos
(gdb) target remote localhost:1234
(gdb) b main
```

Note: Using the GDB debugging, executable must choose `out/arm_mps2_an386/unstripped/bin` executable files in the
directory.

More GDB related debugging can refer to [GDB instruction manual](https://sourceware.org/gdb/current/onlinedocs/gdb).

Commit message:

docs(mini): 修改轻量系统文档中关于运行脚本的描述
适应各模拟板统一运行脚本入口的情况，修改文档中相关
描述；并将实际的运行脚本统一调整至vendor/ohemu仓库

Signed-off-by: laokz <laokz@foxmail.com>
Change-Id: I1e74564415bcf071ad652032e355c2b3ecaa9584

arm_mps2_an386/README.md, after:

### Qemu Arm Cortex-m4 mps2-an386 HOWTO

#### 1. Brief introduction
`arm_mps2_an386/` subdirectory contains part of the OpenHarmony LiteOS demonstration support for Qemu Arm Cortex-m4 mps2-an386 Platform,
here called *arm_mps2_an386*.
cortex-m4 Virtual platform is a `qemu-system-arm` machine target that provides emulation
for a generic, arm-based board.

Introduced functionality adds support for Cortex-m4 (1 CPU with security extensions), 16MB memory virtual platform.

Note: System memory size is hard-coded to 16MB.

#### 2. Setting up environment

[Setting up a development environment](https://gitee.com/openharmony/docs/blob/HEAD/en/device-dev/quick-start/quickstart-lite-env-setup.md)

Compiler install

1.Command to install

Note: Command to install toolchain without arm-none-eabi-gdb, gdb cannot be debugged.

```
$ sudo apt install gcc-arm-none-eabi
```

2.The installation package to install

Note: If you have already passed the command to install gcc-arm-none-eabi, can through the command: `$sudo apt remove
gcc-arm-none-eabi` after unloading, install again.

Download toolchain: [package](https://armkeil.blob.core.windows.net/developer/Files/downloads/gnu-rm/6-2017q2/gcc-arm-none-eabi-6-2017-q2-update-linux.tar.bz2)。

```
$ chmod 777 gcc-arm-none-eabi-6-2017-q2-update-linux.tar.bz2
$ tar -xvf gcc-arm-none-eabi-6-2017-q2-update-linux.tar.bz2 install_path
```

Add the installation path to the environment variable:

```
$ vim ~/.bashrc
```

Add the following command line to the last line of ~/.bashrc:

```
$ export PATH=$PATH:install_path/gcc-arm-none-eabi-6-2017-q2-update/bin
```

#### 3. Code acquisition

[Code acquisition](https://gitee.com/openharmony/docs/blob/HEAD/en/device-dev/get-code/sourcecode-acquire.md)

Note: One can use `repo` to fetch code in a straightforward manner.

#### 4. Building from sources

In the root directory of the obtained source code, run the following command:

```
hb set
```

Select `qemu_mini_system_demo` under **ohemu**.

Run the following build command:
```
$ hb build -f
```

This will build `liteos` for Qemu Cortex-m4 mps2-an386 machine.


After build is finished, the resulting image can be found in:
```
out/arm_mps2_an386/qemu_mini_system_demo/bin/
```
#### 5. Running image in Qemu

a) If not installed, please install `qemu-system-arm`
For details, please refer to the HOWTO: [Qemu installation](https://gitee.com/openharmony/device_qemu/blob/HEAD/README.md)

b) Run

```
$ ./qemu-run out/arm_mps2_an386/qemu_mini_system_demo/bin/liteos
```

#### 6. gdb debug

```
$ cd device/qemu/arm_mps2_an386
$ vim liteos_m/config.gni
```

In the modified `board_opt_flags` compiler options:

```
board_opt_flags = []
```
to:

```
board_opt_flags = [ "-g" ]
```

Save and exit, recompile under OHOS root directory:

```
$ hb build -f
```

In a window to enter the command:

```
$ ./qemu-run gdb out/arm_mps2_an386/qemu_mini_system_demo/unstripped/bin/liteos
```

In another window to enter the command:

```
$ arm-none-eabi-gdb out/arm_mps2_an386/qemu_mini_system_demo/unstripped/bin/liteos
(gdb) target remote localhost:1234
(gdb) b main
```

Note: Using the GDB debugging, executable must choose `out/arm_mps2_an386/qemu_mini_system_demo/unstripped/bin/` executable files in the
directory.

More GDB related debugging can refer to [GDB instruction manual](https://sourceware.org/gdb/current/onlinedocs/gdb).
